# **A-10 | NEXA**
## Track : App Development - Open Innovation

## Problem Statement :
Rural as well as Remote residents encounter barriers to healthcare that limit their ability to obtain the medical services they need. The problem of monitoring such a large number of patients has always been a challenging task for the Medical System of India. 

Also in current scenario, Highly transmittable diseases like COVID-19 have forced people to avail home hospitalization and treatment, hence treating everyone in need of immediate monitoring is difficult in this pandemic. 

May it be a pandemic or the problem of distance, Consulting a good doctor is a great and urgent issue that needs to be dealt with as soon as possible. Also, the need for proper management of a patient's historical record and tracking of current conditions is one the challenges in front of the Medical System in India.

Keeping in mind the above problems, A solution needs to be proposed that solves the problems efficiently and is economically sustainable for the poor citizens of the society.

## Why this issue?
India has a significant shortage of trained physicians nationwide when compared to the WHO recommended ratio. Additionally, with about 80 percent of the medical workforce concentrated in top 8-10 cities and serving only 28 percent of the total population, access to healthcare still remains an aspiration for many. In rural India, a patient may have to travel even about 122 kms to meet a doctor. The need of the hour is to provide good quality healthcare access to the rural and remote population as well.

## Objectives :
- To connect patients in remote and rural areas with the best doctors of their choice.
- To provide essential medical services at lowest possible cost.
- To provide proper patient medical history management system.
- To provide proper patient monitoring equipments in remote areas, where medical reach is hard or disconnected due to lack of connectivity.
- To evolve, innovate and renovate the concept of Tele-medicine using IoT.
- To promote technical job opportunities for people to work as authorized user of the MedIoT kit.

# **Solution :**

## **Sanjeevani**

Sanjeevani is an Android-IoT based Real-Time Health Monitoring and Medical Consultation System. 

The IoT systen is connected to the cloud that let’s the users keep real time check on some basic parameters like: Heart-Rate, Blood Pressure, Temperature, ECG Function, Glucose Level, Dissolved Oxygen Level etc. using Bio-Sensors that transmits the data to Firebase for storage in database and henceforth can be accessed by the authenticated person.

The native-android based medical app offers people to have a better access to healthcare resources beyond their boundaries of accessibility and connect them to doctors, specialists and healthcare experts on a digital platform, which provides them access to an online consultant without a physical visit. The app provides one-to-one interaction with doctors with the help of features like text messages and video chats. For the doctors, It also includes the feature to view-track the medical record of the patient regularly and efficiently.

## Features of the proposed app :
- Text Messages :  
It allows patients to connect to doctors and have a personal consultation over a chat on a digital platform. 
- Video Conference :    
It provides its user to avail the option of video conferencing to have a better understanding of the person’s ailment.
- Multi-Language Support:   
It supports multi-language interface for users to have the comfort of communication in their preferred language.
- Patient Profile :  
It helps doctor check the live health report as generated by the IoT device.

## Features of the proposed IoT device :
- It monitors the patient's body conditions such as
pulse rate, and body temperature, etc, on a real-time basis.
- For the proposed system we have used Wi-Fi Technology to send sensor data to the Cloud Service Platform for archiving and study. The information available on the Cloud can be observed by the doctor by using a Mobile application.
- It is a low cost, effective, and service-oriented as compared to the traditional healthcare practices and other e-Health solutions reviewed.

## Actual Connection of Sanjeevani-IoT:
The Circuit structure consists of total 5 sensors which include an ECG Module, Pulse Oximeter, Temperature Sensor, Glucometer, Blood Pressure module connected to a Biometric Shield that receives manages all the sensors and is connected to Raspberry Pi. The Raspberry Pi is powered using a Common Laptop Battery System for operation and also connected to input device for user input. The Touch Screen is provided for interactive purpose. The user will only need to perform test on the patients and the data will be recorded. We have a GSM Module to ensure 24*7 connectivity to the internet. The data is sent to Ubidots for charting purpose and can be accessed directly using APIs.

## Business Model / StartUp Potential
- Consultation fee for the doctor :  
The app can provide a payment gateway for user to have a hassel-free transaction of consultation fees between the doctor and the patient.
- App Subscription:  
It can also come with a feature of app subscription such that the user can have his/her own subscription to the services for a period of time without any additional charges.
- Coupons and Offers:  
Sanjeevani can also provide exciting offers or discount coupons for its users to have a better experience with the platform and the services.

## Team Members - Domains
1. Shruti Rawal - 3rd Year (Information Technology Engineering)  
College : National Institute of Technolgy Raipur  
Domain : Native Android Developer
2. Aman Kumar Dewangan - 3rd Year (Electrical Engineering)  
College : National Institute of Technolgy Raipur  
Domain : IoT Developer
3. Ayush Ganguli - 3rd Year (Information Technology Engineering)  
College : National Institute of Technolgy Raipur  
Domain : Backend Developer
4. Siddharth Mishra - 2nd Year (Computer Science & Engineering)  
College : National Institute of Technolgy Raipur  
Domain : Native Android Developer + Designer + Documentation